Q: Who is at risk for Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer? ?
A: Different factors increase or decrease the risk of getting ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer.
	                    	Anything that increases your chance of getting a disease is called a risk factor. Anything that decreases your chance of getting a disease is called a protective factor.   For information about risk factors and protective factors for ovarian cancer, see the Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer Prevention summary.   Talk to your doctor about your risk of ovarian cancer.
	                	
                		
		                    Screening tests have risks.
		                    Decisions about screening tests can be difficult. Not all screening tests are helpful and most have risks. Before having any screening test, you may want to talk about the test with your doctor. It is important to know the risks of the test and whether it has been proven to reduce the risk of dying from cancer.
		                
		                
		                    The risks of ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer screening tests include the following:
		                    Finding ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer may not improve health or help a woman live longer.    Screening may not improve your health or help you live longer if you have advanced ovarian cancer or if it has already spread to other places in your body.        False-negative test results can occur.    Screening test results may appear to be normal even though ovarian cancer is present. A woman who receives a false-negative test result (one that shows there is no cancer when there really is) may delay seeking medical care even if she has symptoms.       False-positive test results can occur.     Screening test results may appear to be abnormal even though no cancer is present. A false-positive test result (one that shows there is cancer when there really isn't) can cause anxiety and is usually followed by more tests (such as a laparoscopy or a laparotomy to see if cancer is present), which also have risks. Problems caused by tests used to diagnose ovarian cancer include infection, blood loss, bowel injury, and heart and blood vessel problems. A false-positive test result can also lead to an unneeded oophorectomy (removal of one or both ovaries).
