Q: What are the treatments for Childhood Central Nervous System Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor ?
A: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.    - Children with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.     - Childhood brain tumors may cause signs or symptoms that begin before the cancer is diagnosed and continue for months or years.    - Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.     -  Four types of treatment are used:         - Surgery     - Chemotherapy     - Radiation therapy     - High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.         - Targeted therapy        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT). Treatment for AT/RT is usually within a clinical trial. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. Information about ongoing clinical trials is available from the NCI website. Choosing the most appropriate cancer treatment is a decision that ideally involves the patient, family, and health care team.
                
                
                    Children with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor should have their treatment planned by a team of health care providers who are experts in treating cancer in children.
                    Treatment will be overseen by a pediatric oncologist, a doctor who specializes in treating children with cancer. The pediatric oncologist works with other pediatric health care providers who are experts in treating children with central nervous system cancer and who specialize in certain areas of medicine. These may include the following specialists:          -  Pediatrician.    - Pediatric neurosurgeon.    -  Radiation oncologist.    -  Neurologist.    -  Pediatric nurse specialist.    -  Rehabilitation specialist.    -  Psychologist.    -  Social worker.    -  Geneticist or genetic counselor.
                
                
                    Childhood brain tumors may cause signs or symptoms that begin before the cancer is diagnosed and continue for months or years.
                    Signs or symptoms caused by the tumor may begin before diagnosis. These signs or symptoms may continue for months or years. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about signs or symptoms caused by the tumor that may continue after treatment.
                
                
                    Some cancer treatments cause side effects months or years after treatment has ended.
                    Side effects from cancer treatment that begin during or after treatment and continue for months or years are called late effects. Late effects of cancer treatment may include the following:         - Physical problems.    - Changes in mood, feelings, thinking, learning, or memory.    -  Second cancers (new types of cancer).        Some late effects may be treated or controlled. It is important to talk with your child's doctors about the effects cancer treatment can have on your child. (See the PDQ summary on Late Effects of Treatment for Childhood Cancer for more information).
                
                
                    Four types of treatment are used:
                    Surgery     Surgery is used to diagnose and treat CNS atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor. See the General Information section of this summary.    Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the surgery, most patients will be given chemotherapy and possibly radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Chemotherapy    Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.             - When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect tumor cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Regular doses of anticancer drugs given by mouth or vein to treat brain and spinal cord tumors cannot cross the blood-brain barrier and reach the tumor. Anticancer drugs injected into the cerebrospinal fluid are able to reach the tumor. This is called intrathecal chemotherapy.     - When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach tumor cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). High doses of some anticancer drugs given into a vein can cross the blood-brain barrier and reach the tumor.              Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:             -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of tumor being treated and whether it has spread. External radiation therapy may be given to the brain and spinal cord.     Because radiation therapy can affect growth and brain development in young children, especially children who are three years old or younger, the dose of radiation therapy may be lower than in older children.        High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a method of giving high doses of chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack specific cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do. Targeted therapy is being studied in the treatment of recurrent childhood central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.    Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your child's condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                 
							            Treatment Options for Newly Diagnosed Childhood CNS Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor
							            
							                
							                    Key Points
							                    - There is no standard treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.     - Combinations of treatments are used for patients with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
							                
							                
							                    There is no standard treatment for patients with central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
							                    
							                
							                
							                    Combinations of treatments are used for patients with atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
							                    Because atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) is fast-growing, a combination of treatments is usually given. After surgery to remove the tumor, treatments for AT/RT may include combinations of the following:         - Chemotherapy.    -  Radiation therapy.    -  High-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplant.         Clinical trials of new treatments should be considered for patients with newly diagnosed atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.
