Q: What is (are) Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors ?
A: Key Points
                    - Gastrointestinal stromal tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the gastrointestinal tract.    - Genetic factors can increase the risk of having a gastrointestinal stromal tumor.     - Signs of gastrointestinal stromal tumors include blood in the stool or vomit.    - Tests that examine the GI tract are used to detect (find) and diagnose gastrointestinal stromal tumors.    - Very small GISTs are common.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Gastrointestinal stromal tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the gastrointestinal tract.
                    The gastrointestinal (GI) tract is part of the bodys digestive system. It helps to digest food and takes nutrients (vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and water) from food so they can be used by the body. The GI tract is made up of the following organs:         -  Stomach.    -  Small intestine.    -  Large intestine (colon).         Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) may be malignant (cancer) or benign (not cancer). They are most common in the stomach and small intestine but may be found anywhere in or near the GI tract. Some scientists believe that GISTs begin in cells called interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), in the wall of the GI tract.      See the PDQ summary about Unusual Cancers of Childhood Treatment for information on the treatment of GIST in children.
                
                 
                    Very small GISTs are common.
                    Sometimes GISTs are smaller than the eraser on top of a pencil. Tumors may be found during a procedure that is done for another reason, such as an x-ray or surgery. Some of these small tumors will not grow and cause signs or symptoms or spread to the abdomen or other parts of the body. Doctors do not agree on whether these small tumors should be removed or whether they should be watched to see if they begin to grow.
