Q: What is (are) Small Intestine Cancer ?
A: Key Points
                    - Small intestine cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the small intestine.    - There are five types of small intestine cancer.    - Diet and health history can affect the risk of developing small intestine cancer.    - Signs and symptoms of small intestine cancer include unexplained weight loss and abdominal pain.    - Tests that examine the small intestine are used to detect (find), diagnose, and stage small intestine cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Small intestine cancer is a rare disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the small intestine.
                    The small intestine is part of the bodys digestive system, which also includes the esophagus, stomach, and large intestine. The digestive system removes and processes nutrients (vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and water) from foods and helps pass waste material out of the body. The small intestine is a long tube that connects the stomach to the large intestine. It folds many times to fit inside the abdomen.
                
                
                    There are five types of small intestine cancer.
                    The types of cancer found in the small intestine are adenocarcinoma, sarcoma, carcinoid tumors, gastrointestinal stromal tumor, and lymphoma. This summary discusses adenocarcinoma and leiomyosarcoma (a type of sarcoma).    Adenocarcinoma starts in glandular cells in the lining of the small intestine and is the most common type of small intestine cancer. Most of these tumors occur in the part of the small intestine near the stomach. They may grow and block the intestine.   Leiomyosarcoma starts in the smooth muscle cells of the small intestine. Most of these tumors occur in the part of the small intestine near the large intestine.    See the following PDQ summaries for more information on small intestine cancer:          -  Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma Treatment     -  Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma Treatment     -  Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment     -  Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Treatment     -  Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumors Treatment     -  Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors Treatment
