Q: What is (are) Intraocular (Uveal) Melanoma ?
A: Key Points
                    - Intraocular melanoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the eye.    - Being older and having fair skin may increase the risk of intraocular melanoma.    - Signs of intraocular melanoma include blurred vision or a dark spot on the iris.     - Tests that examine the eye are used to help detect (find) and diagnose intraocular melanoma.    - A biopsy of the tumor is rarely needed to diagnose intraocular melanoma.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Intraocular melanoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the eye.
                    Intraocular melanoma begins in the middle of three layers of the wall of the eye. The outer layer includes the white sclera (the "white of the eye") and the clear cornea at the front of the eye. The inner layer has a lining of nerve tissue, called the retina, which senses light and sends images along the optic nerve to the brain.   The middle layer, where intraocular melanoma forms, is called the uvea or uveal tract, and has three main parts:         -  Iris  The iris is the colored area at the front of the eye (the "eye color"). It can be seen through the clear cornea. The pupil is in the center of the iris and it changes size to let more or less light into the eye. Intraocular melanoma of the iris is usually a small tumor that grows slowly and rarely spreads to other parts of the body.    -  Ciliary body  The ciliary body is a ring of tissue with muscle fibers that change the size of the pupil and the shape of the lens. It is found behind the iris. Changes in the shape of the lens help the eye focus. The ciliary body also makes the clear fluid that fills the space between the cornea and the iris. Intraocular melanoma of the ciliary body is often larger and more likely to spread to other parts of the body than intraocular melanoma of the iris.      -  Choroid  The choroid is a layer of blood vessels that bring oxygen and nutrients to the eye. Most intraocular melanomas begin in the choroid. Intraocular melanoma of the choroid is often larger and more likely to spread to other parts of the body than intraocular melanoma of the iris.          Intraocular melanoma is a rare cancer that forms from cells that make melanin in the iris, ciliary body, and choroid. It is the most common eye cancer in adults.
