Q: What are the treatments for Skin Cancer ?
A: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis.     - Six types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery      - Radiation therapy      - Chemotherapy      - Photodynamic therapy     - Biologic therapy     - Targeted therapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.    - Treatment for skin cancer may cause side effects.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Six types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery     One or more of the following surgical procedures may be used to treat nonmelanoma skin cancer or actinic keratosis:            -  Mohs micrographic surgery: The tumor is cut from the skin in thin layers. During surgery, the edges of the tumor and each layer of tumor removed are viewed through a microscope to check for cancer cells. Layers continue to be removed until no more cancer cells are seen. This type of surgery removes as little normal tissue as possible and is often used to remove skin cancer on the face.      - Simple excision: The tumor is cut from the skin along with some of the normal skin around it.      - Shave excision: The abnormal area is shaved off the surface of the skin with a small blade.      -  Electrodesiccation and curettage: The tumor is cut from the skin with a curette (a sharp, spoon-shaped tool). A needle-shaped electrode is then used to treat the area with an electric current that stops the bleeding and destroys cancer cells that remain around the edge of the wound. The process may be repeated one to three times during the surgery to remove all of the cancer.     -  Cryosurgery: A treatment that uses an instrument to freeze and destroy abnormal tissue, such as carcinoma in situ. This type of treatment is also called cryotherapy.     -  Laser surgery: A surgical procedure that uses a laser beam (a narrow beam of intense light) as a knife to make bloodless cuts in tissue or to remove a surface lesion such as a tumor.     -  Dermabrasion: Removal of the top layer of skin using a rotating wheel or small particles to rub away skin cells.              Radiation therapy      Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat skin cancer.       Chemotherapy      Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). Chemotherapy for nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis is usually topical (applied to the skin in a cream or lotion). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the condition being treated.     Retinoids (drugs related to vitamin A) are sometimes used to treat squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.    See Drugs Approved for Basal Cell Carcinoma for more information.       Photodynamic therapy     Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a cancer treatment that uses a drug and a certain type of laser light to kill cancer cells. A drug that is not active until it is exposed to light is injected into a vein. The drug collects more in cancer cells than in normal cells. For skin cancer, laser light is shined onto the skin and the drug becomes active and kills the cancer cells. Photodynamic therapy causes little damage to healthy tissue.       Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patients immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the bodys natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.     Interferon and imiquimod are biologic agents used to treat skin cancer. Interferon (by injection) may be used to treat squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Topical imiquimod therapy (a cream applied to the skin) may be used to treat some small basal cell carcinomas.    See Drugs Approved for Basal Cell Carcinoma for more information.       Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to attack cancer cells. Targeted therapies usually cause less harm to normal cells than chemotherapy or radiation therapy do.     Targeted therapy with a signal transduction inhibitor is used to treat basal cell carcinoma. Signal transduction inhibitors block signals that are passed from one molecule to another inside a cell. Blocking these signals may kill cancer cells. Vismodegib and sonidegib are signal transduction inhibitors used to treat basal cell carcinoma.     See Drugs Approved for Basal Cell Carcinoma for more information.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Treatment for skin cancer may cause side effects.
                    For information about side effects caused by treatment for cancer, see our Side Effects page.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.   Basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma are likely to recur (come back), usually within 5 years, or new tumors may form. Talk to your doctor about how often you should have your skin checked for signs of cancer.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options for Nonmelanoma Skin Cancer
		            
		                
		                    Basal Cell Carcinoma
		                    Treatment of basal cell carcinoma may include the following:         - Simple excision.    -  Mohs micrographic surgery.    -  Radiation therapy.    -  Electrodesiccation and curettage.    -  Cryosurgery.    -  Photodynamic therapy.    -  Topical chemotherapy.    -  Topical biologic therapy with imiquimod.    -  Laser surgery.        Treatment of recurrent basal cell carcinoma is usually Mohs micrographic surgery.   Treatment of basal cell carcinoma that is metastatic or cannot be treated with local therapy may include the following:         -  Targeted therapy with a signal transduction inhibitor.    -  Chemotherapy.    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with basal cell carcinoma of the skin. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Squamous Cell Carcinoma
		                    Treatment of squamous cell carcinoma may include the following:         - Simple excision.    -  Mohs micrographic surgery.    -  Radiation therapy.    -  Electrodesiccation and curettage.    -  Cryosurgery.        Treatment of recurrent squamous cell carcinoma may include the following:         - Simple excision.    - Mohs micrographic surgery.    - Radiation therapy.        Treatment of squamous cell carcinoma that is metastatic or cannot be treated with local therapy may include the following:         -  Chemotherapy.    -  Retinoid therapy and biologic therapy with interferon.    -  A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
