Q: What are the treatments for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ?
A: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.     - Five types of standard treatment are used:         - Watchful waiting     - Radiation therapy      - Chemotherapy      - Surgery      - Targeted therapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.          - Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant     - Biologic therapy     - Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Five types of standard treatment are used:
                    Watchful waiting     Watchful waiting is closely monitoring a patients condition without giving any treatment until signs or symptoms appear or change. This is also called observation. During this time, problems caused by the disease, such as infection, are treated.       Radiation therapy      Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type of cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia.       Chemotherapy      Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, or the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    See Drugs Approved for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia for more information.       Surgery      Splenectomy is surgery to remove the spleen.       Targeted therapy     Targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific cancer cells without harming normal cells. Monoclonal antibody therapy, tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy, and BCL2 inhibitor therapy are types of targeted therapy used in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.      Monoclonal antibody therapy is a cancer treatment that uses antibodies made in the laboratory from a single type of immune system cell. These antibodies can identify substances on cancer cells or normal substances in the body that may help cancer cells grow. The antibodies attach to the substances and kill the cancer cells, block their growth, or keep them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies are given by infusion. They may be used alone or to carry drugs, toxins, or radioactive material directly to cancer cells.    Tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy is a cancer treatment that blocks signals needed for tumors to grow.    BCL2 inhibitor therapy is a cancer treatment that blocks a protein called BCL2. BCL2 inhibitor therapy may kill cancer cells and may make them more sensitive to other anticancer drugs.     See Drugs Approved for Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia for more information.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.     Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant    Chemotherapy with stem cell transplant is a method of giving chemotherapy and replacing blood -forming cells destroyed by the cancer treatment. Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of the patient or a donor and are frozen and stored. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. These reinfused stem cells grow into (and restore) the bodys blood cells.        Biologic therapy     Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer. Substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. This type of cancer treatment is also called biotherapy or immunotherapy.       Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy     CAR T-cell therapy is a type of immunotherapy that changes the patient's T cells (a type of immune system cell) so they will attack certain proteins on the surface of cancer cells. T cells are taken from the patient and special receptors are added to their surface in the laboratory. The changed cells are called chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells. The CAR T cells are grown in the laboratory and given to the patient by infusion. The CAR T cells multiply in the patient's blood and attack cancer cells. CAR T-cell therapy is being studied in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
                 
							            Treatment Options by Stage
							            
							                    Stage 0 Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
							                    Treatment of stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia is usually watchful waiting.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
							                    Stage I, Stage II, Stage III, and Stage IV Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
							                    Treatment of stage I, stage II, stage III, and stage IV chronic lymphocytic leukemia may include the following:         -  Watchful waiting when there are few or no signs or symptoms.    -  Targeted therapy with a monoclonal antibody, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, or a BCL2 inhibitor.    -  Chemotherapy with 1 or more drugs, with or without steroids or monoclonal antibody therapy.     - Low-dose external radiation therapy to areas of the body where cancer is found, such as the spleen or lymph nodes.    - A clinical trial of chemotherapy and biologic therapy with stem cell transplant.    - A clinical trial of a new treatment.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I chronic lymphocytic leukemia, stage II chronic lymphocytic leukemia, stage III chronic lymphocytic leukemia and stage IV chronic lymphocytic leukemia. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
