Q: What is (are) Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, and Primary Peritoneal Cancer ?
A: Key Points
                    - Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissue covering the ovary or lining the fallopian tube or peritoneum.     - Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer form in the same type of tissue and are treated the same way.    - Women who have a family history of ovarian cancer are at an increased risk of ovarian cancer.    - Some ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers are caused by inherited gene mutations (changes).    - Women with an increased risk of ovarian cancer may consider surgery to lessen the risk.    - Signs and symptoms of ovarian, fallopian tube, or peritoneal cancer include pain or swelling in the abdomen.    - Tests that examine the ovaries and pelvic area are used to detect (find) and diagnose ovarian, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancer.    - Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer are diseases in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissue covering the ovary or lining the fallopian tube or peritoneum.
                    The ovaries are a pair of organs in the female reproductive system. They are in the pelvis, one on each side of the uterus (the hollow, pear-shaped organ where a fetus grows). Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. The ovaries make eggs and female hormones (chemicals that control the way certain cells or organs work).    The fallopian tubes are a pair of long, slender tubes, one on each side of the uterus. Eggs pass from the ovaries, through the fallopian tubes, to the uterus. Cancer sometimes begins at the end of the fallopian tube near the ovary and spreads to the ovary.   The peritoneum is the tissue that lines the abdominal wall and covers organs in the abdomen. Primary peritoneal cancer is cancer that forms in the peritoneum and has not spread there from another part of the body. Cancer sometimes begins in the peritoneum and spreads to the ovary.       Ovarian epithelial cancer is one type of cancer that affects the ovary. See the following PDQ treatment summaries for information about other types of ovarian tumors:         -  Ovarian Germ Cell Tumors     -  Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors     -  Unusual Cancers of Childhood Treatment (ovarian cancer in children)
                
                
                    Ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, and primary peritoneal cancer form in the same type of tissue and are treated the same way.
