Q: What is (are) Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis ?
A: Key Points
                    - Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a type of cancer that can damage tissue or cause lesions to form in one or more places in the body.    - Family history or having a parent who was exposed to certain chemicals may increase the risk of LCH.    - The signs and symptoms of LCH depend on where it is in the body.         - Skin and nails     - Mouth     - Bone     - Lymph nodes and thymus     - Endocrine system      - Central nervous system (CNS)     - Liver and spleen     - Lung     - Bone marrow        - Tests that examine the organs and body systems where LCH may occur are used to detect (find) and diagnose LCH.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a type of cancer that can damage tissue or cause lesions to form in one or more places in the body.
                    Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare cancer that begins in LCH cells (a type of dendritic cell which fights infection). Sometimes there are mutations (changes) in LCH cells as they form. These include mutations of the  BRAF  gene. These changes may make the LCH cells grow and multiply quickly. This causes LCH cells to build up in certain parts of the body, where they can damage tissue or form lesions.    LCH is not a disease of the Langerhans cells that normally occur in the skin.   LCH may occur at any age, but is most common in young children. Treatment of LCH in children is different from treatment of LCH in adults. The treatments for LCH in children and adults are described in separate sections of this summary.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with childhood Langerhans cell histiocytosis. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your child's doctor about clinical trials that may be right for your child. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
