Q: What is (are) Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors ?
A: Key Points
                    - A childhood brain or spinal cord tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain or spinal cord.     - The brain controls many important body functions.    - The spinal cord connects the brain with nerves in most parts of the body.    - Brain and spinal cord tumors are a common type of childhood cancer.    - The cause of most childhood brain and spinal cord tumors is unknown.    - The signs and symptoms of childhood brain and spinal cord tumors are not the same in every child.    - Tests that examine the brain and spinal cord are used to detect (find) childhood brain and spinal cord tumors.    - Most childhood brain tumors are diagnosed and removed in surgery.    - Some childhood brain and spinal cord tumors are diagnosed by imaging tests.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    A childhood brain or spinal cord tumor is a disease in which abnormal cells form in the tissues of the brain or spinal cord.
                    There are many types of childhood brain and spinal cord tumors. The tumors are formed by the abnormal growth of cells and may begin in different areas of the brain or spinal cord.    The tumors may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer). Benign brain tumors grow and press on nearby areas of the brain. They rarely spread into other tissues. Malignant brain tumors are likely to grow quickly and spread into other brain tissue. When a tumor grows into or presses on an area of the brain, it may stop that part of the brain from working the way it should. Both benign and malignant brain tumors can cause signs or symptoms and need treatment.   Together, the brain and spinal cord make up the central nervous system (CNS).
                
                
                    The brain controls many important body functions.
                    The brain has three major parts:          - The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain. It is at the top of the head. The cerebrum controls thinking, learning, problem solving, emotions, speech, reading, writing, and voluntary movement.     - The cerebellum is in the lower back of the brain (near the middle of the back of the head). It controls movement, balance, and posture.    - The brain stem connects the brain to the spinal cord. It is in the lowest part of the brain (just above the back of the neck). The brain stem controls breathing, heart rate, and the nerves and muscles used in seeing, hearing, walking, talking, and eating.
                
                
                    The spinal cord connects the brain with nerves in most parts of the body.
                    The spinal cord is a column of nerve tissue that runs from the brain stem down the center of the back. It is covered by three thin layers of tissue called membranes. These membranes are surrounded by the vertebrae (back bones). Spinal cord nerves carry messages between the brain and the rest of the body, such as a message from the brain to cause muscles to move or a message from the skin to the brain to feel touch.
                
                
                    Brain and spinal cord tumors are a common type of childhood cancer.
                    Although cancer is rare in children, brain and spinal cord tumors are the third most common type of childhood cancer, after leukemia and lymphoma. Brain tumors can occur in both children and adults. Treatment for children is usually different than treatment for adults. (See the PDQ summary on Adult Central Nervous System Tumors Treatment for more information about the treatment of adults.)    This summary describes the treatment of primary brain and spinal cord tumors (tumors that begin in the brain and spinal cord). Treatment of metastatic brain and spinal cord tumors is not covered in this summary. Metastatic tumors are formed by cancer cells that begin in other parts of the body and spread to the brain or spinal cord.
