Q: What are the treatments for Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter ?
A: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter.    - One type of standard treatment is used:         - Surgery        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.         - Fulguration     - Segmental resection of the renal pelvis     - Laser surgery     - Regional chemotherapy and regional biologic therapy        - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter.
                    Different types of treatments are available for patients with transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    One type of standard treatment is used:
                    Surgery    One of the following surgical procedures may be used to treat transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter:            -  Nephroureterectomy: Surgery to remove the entire kidney, the ureter, and the bladder cuff (tissue that connects the ureter to the bladder).     -  Segmental resection of the ureter: A surgical procedure to remove the part of the ureter that contains cancer and some of the healthy tissue around it. The ends of the ureter are then reattached. This treatment is used when the cancer is superficial and in the lower third of the ureter only, near the bladder.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    This summary section describes treatments that are being studied in clinical trials. It may not mention every new treatment being studied. Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site.     Fulguration     Fulguration is a surgical procedure that destroys tissue using an electric current. A tool with a small wire loop on the end is used to remove the cancer or to burn away the tumor with electricity.       Segmental resection of the renal pelvis    This is a surgical procedure to remove localized cancer from the renal pelvis without removing the entire kidney. Segmental resection may be done to save kidney function when the other kidney is damaged or has already been removed.        Laser surgery    A laser beam (narrow beam of intense light) is used as a knife to remove the cancer. A laser beam can also be used to kill the cancer cells. This procedure may also be called or laser fulguration.       Regional chemotherapy and regional biologic therapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping the cells from dividing. Biologic therapy is a treatment that uses the patient's immune system to fight cancer; substances made by the body or made in a laboratory are used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. Regional treatment means the anticancer drugs or biologic substances are placed directly into an organ or a body cavity such as the abdomen, so the drugs will affect cancer cells in that area. Clinical trials are studying chemotherapy or biologic therapy using drugs placed directly into the renal pelvis or the ureter.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options for Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter
		            
		                
		                    Localized Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter
		                    Treatment of localized transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter may include the following:         -  Surgery (nephroureterectomy or segmental resection of ureter).    - A clinical trial of fulguration.    - A clinical trial of laser surgery.    - A clinical trial of segmental resection of the renal pelvis.    - A clinical trial of regional chemotherapy.    - A clinical trial of regional biologic therapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with localized transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Regional Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter
		                    Treatment of regional transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter is usually done in a clinical trial.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with regional transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Metastatic Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter
		                    Treatment of metastatic transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter is usually done in a clinical trial, which may include chemotherapy.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with metastatic transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Recurrent Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter
		                    Treatment of recurrent transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter is usually done in a clinical trial, which may include chemotherapy.    Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
