Q: What is (are) Male Breast Cancer ?
A: Key Points
                    - Male breast cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the breast.    - Radiation exposure, high levels of estrogen, and a family history of breast cancer can increase a mans risk of breast cancer.     - Male breast cancer is sometimes caused by inherited gene mutations (changes).    - Men with breast cancer usually have lumps that can be felt.     - Tests that examine the breasts are used to detect (find) and diagnose breast cancer in men.    - If cancer is found, tests are done to study the cancer cells.    - Survival for men with breast cancer is similar to survival for women with breast cancer.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Male breast cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the breast.
                    Breast cancer may occur in men. Men at any age may develop breast cancer, but it is usually detected (found) in men between 60 and 70 years of age. Male breast cancer makes up less than 1% of all cases of breast cancer.   The following types of breast cancer are found in men:         -  Infiltrating ductal carcinoma: Cancer that has spread beyond the cells lining ducts in the breast. Most men with breast cancer have this type of cancer.    -  Ductal carcinoma in situ: Abnormal cells that are found in the lining of a duct; also called intraductal carcinoma.    -  Inflammatory breast cancer: A type of cancer in which the breast looks red and swollen and feels warm.     -  Paget disease of the nipple: A tumor that has grown from ducts beneath the nipple onto the surface of the nipple.          Lobular carcinoma in situ (abnormal cells found in one of the lobes or sections of the breast), which sometimes occurs in women, has not been seen in men.
                
                
                    Men with breast cancer usually have lumps that can be felt.
                    Lumps and other signs may be caused by male breast cancer or by other conditions. Check with your doctor if you notice a change in your breasts.
