Q: What are the treatments for Small Cell Lung Cancer ?
A: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with small cell lung cancer.     - Five types of standard treatment are used:         - Surgery      - Chemotherapy      - Radiation therapy      - Laser therapy     - Endoscopic stent placement        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.     - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with small cell lung cancer.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with small cell lung cancer. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Five types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery      Surgery may be used if the cancer is found in one lung and in nearby lymph nodes only. Because this type of lung cancer is usually found in both lungs, surgery alone is not often used. During surgery, the doctor will also remove lymph nodes to find out if they have cancer in them. Sometimes, surgery may be used to remove a sample of lung tissue to find out the exact type of lung cancer.     Even if the doctor removes all the cancer that can be seen at the time of the operation, some patients may be given chemotherapy or radiation therapy after surgery to kill any cancer cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the cancer will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.       Chemotherapy     Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.    See Drugs Approved for Small Cell Lung Cancer for more information.       Radiation therapy     Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high-energy x-rays or other types of radiation to kill cancer cells or keep them from growing. There are two types of radiation therapy:            -  External radiation therapy uses a machine outside the body to send radiation toward the cancer.     -  Internal radiation therapy uses a radioactive substance sealed in needles, seeds, wires, or catheters that are placed directly into or near the cancer.           The way the radiation therapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated. External radiation therapy is used to treat small cell lung cancer, and may also be used as palliative therapy to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life. Radiation therapy to the brain to lessen the risk that cancer will spread to the brain may also be given.       Laser therapy     Laser therapy is a cancer treatment that uses a laser beam (a narrow beam of intense light) to kill cancer cells.       Endoscopic stent placement     An endoscope is a thin, tube-like instrument used to look at tissues inside the body. An endoscope has a light and a lens for viewing and may be used to place a stent in a body structure to keep the structure open. An endoscopic stent can be used to open an airway blocked by abnormal tissue.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the cancer research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new cancer treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for cancer are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.   Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their cancer treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose cancer has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop cancer from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of cancer treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's listing of clinical trials.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the cancer or to find out the stage of the cancer may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests.   Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the cancer has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options by Stage
		            
		                
		                    Limited-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of limited-stage small cell lung cancer may include the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy and radiation therapy to the chest. Radiation therapy to the brain may later be given to patients with complete responses.    - Combination chemotherapy alone for patients who cannot be given radiation therapy.    -  Surgery followed by chemotherapy.    - Surgery followed by chemotherapy and radiation therapy.    - Radiation therapy to the brain may be given to patients who have had a complete response, to prevent the spread of cancer to the brain.    -  Clinical trials of new chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation treatments.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with limited stage small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
		                    Treatment of extensive-stage small cell lung cancer may include the following:         -  Combination chemotherapy.     -  Radiation therapy to the brain, spine, bone, or other parts of the body where the cancer has spread, as palliative therapy to relieve symptoms and improve quality of life.    - Radiation therapy to the chest may be given to patients who respond to chemotherapy.    - Radiation therapy to the brain may be given to patients who have had a complete response, to prevent the spread of cancer to the brain.    -  Clinical trials of new chemotherapy treatments.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
