Q: What is (are) Childhood Central Nervous System Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor ?
A: Key Points
                    - Central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the brain.    - Certain genetic changes may increase the risk of atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.    - The signs and symptoms of atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor are not the same in every patient.    - Tests that examine the brain and spinal cord are used to detect (find) CNS atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor.    - Childhood atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor is diagnosed and may be removed in surgery.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Central nervous system atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the brain.
                    Central nervous system (CNS) atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) is a very rare, fast-growing tumor of the brain and spinal cord. It usually occurs in children aged three years and younger, although it can occur in older children and adults.    About half of these tumors form in the cerebellum or brain stem. The cerebellum is the part of the brain that controls movement, balance, and posture. The brain stem controls breathing, heart rate, and the nerves and muscles used in seeing, hearing, walking, talking, and eating. AT/RT may also be found in other parts of the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord).    This summary describes the treatment of primary brain tumors (tumors that begin in the brain). Treatment for metastatic brain tumors, which are tumors formed by cancer cells that begin in other parts of the body and spread to the brain, is not covered in this summary. For more information, see the PDQ summary on Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Treatment Overview about the different types of childhood brain and spinal cord tumors.   Brain tumors can occur in both children and adults; however, treatment for children may be different than treatment for adults. See the PDQ treatment summary on Adult Central Nervous System Tumors Treatment for more information.
