Q: What are the treatments for Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors ?
A: Key Points
                    - There are different types of treatment for patients with ovarian low malignant potential tumor.    - Two types of standard treatment are used:          - Surgery     - Chemotherapy        - New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.    - Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.    - Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.    - Follow-up tests may be needed.
                
                
                    There are different types of treatment for patients with ovarian low malignant potential tumor.
                    Different types of treatment are available for patients with ovarian low malignant potential tumor. Some treatments are standard (the currently used treatment), and some are being tested in clinical trials. A treatment clinical trial is a research study meant to help improve current treatments or obtain information on new treatments for patients with cancer, tumors, and related conditions. When clinical trials show that a new treatment is better than the standard treatment, the new treatment may become the standard treatment. Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial. Some clinical trials are open only to patients who have not started treatment.
                
                
                    Two types of standard treatment are used:
                    Surgery    The type of surgery (removing the tumor in an operation) depends on the size and spread of the tumor and the womans plans for having children. Surgery may include the following:            -  Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy: Surgery to remove one ovary and one fallopian tube.     -  Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy: Surgery to remove both ovaries and both fallopian tubes.     -  Total hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy: Surgery to remove the uterus, cervix, and both ovaries and fallopian tubes. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through the vagina, the operation is called a vaginal hysterectomy. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through a large incision (cut) in the abdomen, the operation is called a total abdominal hysterectomy. If the uterus and cervix are taken out through a small incision (cut) in the abdomen using a laparoscope, the operation is called a total laparoscopic hysterectomy.     -  Partial oophorectomy: Surgery to remove part of one ovary or part of both ovaries.     -  Omentectomy: Surgery to remove the omentum (a piece of the tissue lining the abdominal wall).           Even if the doctor removes all disease that can be seen at the time of the operation, the patient may be given chemotherapy after surgery to kill any tumor cells that are left. Treatment given after the surgery, to lower the risk that the tumor will come back, is called adjuvant therapy.        Chemotherapy    Chemotherapy is a cancer treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. When chemotherapy is taken by mouth or injected into a vein or muscle, the drugs enter the bloodstream and can reach cancer cells throughout the body (systemic chemotherapy). When chemotherapy is placed directly into the cerebrospinal fluid, an organ, or a body cavity such as the abdomen, the drugs mainly affect cancer cells in those areas (regional chemotherapy). The way the chemotherapy is given depends on the type and stage of the cancer being treated.
                
                
                    New types of treatment are being tested in clinical trials.
                    Information about clinical trials is available from the NCI Web site.
                
                
                    Patients may want to think about taking part in a clinical trial.
                    For some patients, taking part in a clinical trial may be the best treatment choice. Clinical trials are part of the medical research process. Clinical trials are done to find out if new treatments are safe and effective or better than the standard treatment.   Many of today's standard treatments for disease are based on earlier clinical trials. Patients who take part in a clinical trial may receive the standard treatment or be among the first to receive a new treatment.    Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way diseases will be treated in the future. Even when clinical trials do not lead to effective new treatments, they often answer important questions and help move research forward.
                
                
                    Patients can enter clinical trials before, during, or after starting their treatment.
                    Some clinical trials only include patients who have not yet received treatment. Other trials test treatments for patients whose disease has not gotten better. There are also clinical trials that test new ways to stop a disease from recurring (coming back) or reduce the side effects of treatment.   Clinical trials are taking place in many parts of the country. See the Treatment Options section that follows for links to current treatment clinical trials. These have been retrieved from NCI's clinical trials database.
                
                
                    Follow-up tests may be needed.
                    Some of the tests that were done to diagnose the disease may be repeated. Some tests will be repeated in order to see how well the treatment is working. Decisions about whether to continue, change, or stop treatment may be based on the results of these tests. This is sometimes called re-staging.    Some of the tests will continue to be done from time to time after treatment has ended. The results of these tests can show if your condition has changed or if the disease has recurred (come back). These tests are sometimes called follow-up tests or check-ups.
                
		        
		            Treatment Options for Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors
		            
		                
		                    Early Stage Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors (Stage I and II)
		                    Surgery is the standard treatment for early stage ovarian low malignant potential tumor. The type of surgery usually depends on whether a woman plans to have children.   For women who plan to have children, surgery is either:         -  unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy; or     -  partial oophorectomy.        To prevent recurrence of disease, most doctors recommend surgery to remove the remaining ovarian tissue when a woman no longer plans to have children.   For women who do not plan to have children, treatment may be hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage I borderline ovarian surface epithelial-stromal tumor and stage II borderline ovarian surface epithelial-stromal tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Late Stage Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors (Stage III and IV)
		                    Treatment for late stage ovarian low malignant potential tumor may be hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and omentectomy. A lymph node dissection may also be done.   Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with stage III borderline ovarian surface epithelial-stromal tumor and stage IV borderline ovarian surface epithelial-stromal tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
		                
		                
		                    Recurrent Ovarian Low Malignant Potential Tumors
		                    Treatment for recurrent ovarian low malignant potential tumor may include the following:         -  Surgery.    - Surgery followed by chemotherapy.        Check the list of NCI-supported cancer clinical trials that are now accepting patients with recurrent borderline ovarian surface epithelial-stromal tumor. For more specific results, refine the search by using other search features, such as the location of the trial, the type of treatment, or the name of the drug. Talk with your doctor about clinical trials that may be right for you. General information about clinical trials is available from the NCI website.
