Q: What is (are) Breast Cancer ?
A: Key Points
                    - Breast cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the breast.    -  A family history of breast cancer and other factors increase the risk of breast cancer.    - Breast cancer is sometimes caused by inherited gene mutations (changes).     -  The use of certain medicines and other factors decrease the risk of breast cancer.    - Signs of breast cancer include a lump or change in the breast.    - Tests that examine the breasts are used to detect (find) and diagnose breast cancer.    - If cancer is found, tests are done to study the cancer cells.    - Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options.
                
                
                    Breast cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the breast.
                    The breast is made up of lobes and ducts. Each breast has 15 to 20 sections called lobes. Each lobe has many smaller sections called lobules. Lobules end in dozens of tiny bulbs that can make milk. The lobes, lobules, and bulbs are linked by thin tubes called ducts.      Each breast also has blood vessels and lymph vessels. The lymph vessels carry an almost colorless fluid called lymph. Lymph vessels carry lymph between lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are small bean-shaped structures that are found throughout the body. They filter substances in lymph and help fight infection and disease. Clusters of lymph nodes are found near the breast in the axilla (under the arm), above the collarbone, and in the chest.   The most common type of breast cancer is ductal carcinoma, which begins in the cells of the ducts. Cancer that begins in the lobes or lobules is called lobular carcinoma and is more often found in both breasts than are other types of breast cancer. Inflammatory breast cancer is an uncommon type of breast cancer in which the breast is warm, red, and swollen.    See the following PDQ summaries for more information about breast cancer:         -  Breast Cancer Prevention     -  Breast Cancer Screening     -  Breast Cancer Treatment and Pregnancy     -  Male Breast Cancer Treatment     -  Unusual Cancers of Childhood Treatment (for information about breast cancer in childhood)
