Q: What is (are) Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia ?
A: Key Points
                    - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell).    - Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.    - Older age can affect the risk of developing chronic lymphocytic leukemia.    - Signs and symptoms of chronic lymphocytic leukemia include swollen lymph nodes and tiredness.     - Tests that examine the blood, bone marrow, and lymph nodes are used to detect (find) and diagnose chronic lymphocytic leukemia.    - Certain factors affect treatment options and prognosis (chance of recovery).
                
                
                    Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell).
                    Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (also called CLL) is a blood and bone marrow disease that usually gets worse slowly. CLL is one of the most common types of leukemia in adults. It often occurs during or after middle age; it rarely occurs in children.
                
                
                    Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.
                    Normally, the body makes blood stem cells (immature cells) that become mature blood cells over time. A blood stem cell may become a myeloid stem cell or a lymphoid stem cell.   A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells:         -  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body.    -  White blood cells that fight infection and disease.     -  Platelets that form blood clots to stop bleeding.        A lymphoid stem cell becomes a lymphoblast cell and then one of three types of lymphocytes (white blood cells):         -  B lymphocytes that make antibodies to help fight infection.    -  T lymphocytes that help B lymphocytes make antibodies to fight infection.    -  Natural killer cells that attack cancer cells and viruses.         In CLL, too many blood stem cells become abnormal lymphocytes and do not become healthy white blood cells. The abnormal lymphocytes may also be called leukemia cells. The lymphocytes are not able to fight infection very well. Also, as the number of lymphocytes increases in the blood and bone marrow, there is less room for healthy white blood cells, red blood cells, and platelets. This may cause infection, anemia, and easy bleeding.    This summary is about chronic lymphocytic leukemia. See the following PDQ summaries for more information about leukemia:          -  Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treatment.    -  Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Treatment.    -  Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia Treatment.    -  Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia/Other Myeloid Malignancies Treatment.    -  Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Treatment.    -  Hairy Cell Leukemia Treatment.
